so i'd like to start by sharing our
vision for the private web
but what do i mean by the private web
imagine a web where you don't have to
log in separately to every different
site
and where you own your identity imagine
a web that's not constantly surveilling
your every action and using it against
you
imagine owning the data that you create
in apps and being able to use
the data securely in other apps this is
our the vision of the private web that
we're trying to build with pierce
currently it's easy for anyone to share
media websites
or apps privately or publicly in
progress
in any browser without any extensions
pegos is a protocol for private storage
social media
and applications built on top of ipfs
this includes user controlled identity
sandboxed applications where no
surveillance is possible
untrusted service and quantum resistance
most of us are exclusive so we care a
lot about that
and protected metadata which we'll be
talking more about later
let's start with a quick overview of the
architecture
the physical architecture is quite flat
every paregos instance has an embedded
idfs instance
and these all communicate over bitswap
the dht
and peer-to-peer streams there's also a
pki
which stores its data in in those ipfs
instances
but the critical thing from that we rely
on a lot
is that this doesn't depend in any way
on on dns
or the tls certificate authorities of
course if you want to access
a pago server over dns you can if you
want but the protocol doesn't rely on it
the logical architecture is also quite
simple
each user has a home server which is
responsible for storing their data
they can have as many mirrors as they
like and each home server can store as
many users as it can handle
so with within their home server each
user has
a set of key pairs which which are used
to sign
the merkle roots of data that's in ipfs
and these these are called we call these
mutable pointers
they're similar to ipns but with
slightly different properties
and the only other thing we have is a
mailbox
so this is a blinded encrypted mailbox
for reasons which we'll discuss later
but and it's not
that's the one thing that's not stored
in ipfs which is to do with the the
quantum resistance
pegos breaks down into several truss
boundaries
so these are mutually untrusting regions
so if any data or hashes
cross one of these boundaries then it's
verified by the recipient whether it's a
hash or a signature
so for example the pagos client doesn't
trust the pig or server
the server itself doesn't trust ibfs
and apps are also sandboxed off from the
client
so these sandboxes these are actually
operating system level processes
and you need to do that if if you care
about things like side channels
from things like meltdown inspector
this arrow on the left is an interesting
one so this is uh
the case of an s3 direct s3 block store
which we'll talk about later
but in that case the block store itself
actually verifies hashes
of writes from the client
but we'll see more about those details
later
during file upload a file is split into
five megabyte chunks each of these are
independently encrypted
and then split into fragments which are
then stored in ipfs
and the the critical benefit we get from
this well one of the critical benefits
we get from this
is chunking is it allows us to hide the
size of files so
the different chunks of a file can't be
linked together
from the service perspective so you end
up
with a maximum of five meg size for a
chunk
and actually we go even further so we we
pad the files before encryption
to a multiple of 4k uh so then you end
up
the only possible sizes of a chunk in
the entire system
uh there's five meg divided by 4k which
is 1280.
so we we try to keep the entropy very
very low
we do access control and it's serverless
access control
so it's capability based every file or
directory
has several symmetric keys associated
with it
and if you want to grant someone access
to
an entire sub tree or just one file you
can do that by just sharing the key with
them
and then they can decrypt the file uh or
if it's just a metadata key they can
decrypt the path and the metadata
including the name
there's also a right crit tree which is
a bit simpler
but still also based on symmetric keys
and the one property both these crit
trees have
which we care a lot about is to do with
quantum resistance
so for the for the privacy of your files
we only rely on
symmetric encryption and hashing and
neither of these
are broken by a quantum computer they're
a little there you go 2x speed up but
nothing significant
whereas asymmetric encryption is totally
broken
so that's why we don't rely on that
anywhere
in in these criteria structure
the other thing we care a lot about is
metadata so there's a long list of
things the server can't see
uh file names paths sizes
and properties things like the mime type
modification time
even whether something is a file or a
folder
uh and because of that the server also
can't see the directory topology
you can't it can't see the number of
files uh or the number of directories or
some of those
but the other kind of metadata we care
about is the social side of things
so who has access to a file can't be
seen by the server nor not even how many
people have access to a file
and along similar lines to social graph
so that's where the mailbox i mentioned
earlier
is blinded so the server can't see who's
sending a follow request to whom
and so your social graph is totally
under your control
the main thing the server can see is an
upper bound on the total amount of space
used
and if you care about that you can just
fill it with with empty data
so that's the architecture now for some
highlights from 2020.
at the beginning of 2020 we already had
photo galleries
video and music streaming for
arbitrarily large video
a text editor and a pdf viewer
in 2020 we added to do boards or kanbans
so you can plan whatever it is you're
trying to plan privately
and it fast encrypted file search so
that that sounds trivial but
in an end-to-end encrypted system it's
actually pretty hard to officially do
file search
but we're pleasantly surprised with how
how fast it turned out to be
now the the following three things we
haven't actually announced yet so
i'm giving you the the inside scoop uh
but you can already try them out on our
beta server right now
the first of these is a calendar so it's
a private calendar
the model is every event is stored as a
standard
ical file in your pc space and this
means we can leverage the the sharing
capabilities
of pagos so you can share individual
events with your friends
or indeed generate a secret link to an
event to share with anyone
second cool thing from 2020 was
peer-to-peer web hosting
so this this lets you basically host a
website
it's a static website from direct
directly from a folder in your peergloss
space
you get instantaneous updates and
there's no no cryptocurrency required
for publishing or updating and it's
basically a single click to publish
once you've done so you can view your
your website
via any public pagos gateway so we've
set one up at pagos.me
and it would be your username dot pagos
dot me
but a much cooler way to view it is a
peer-to-peer way so if you run pagos
locally
then you can view it at
username.pagos.localhost
and if you're viewing it that way then
it's totally independent of dns
and you've got the secure authenticated
peer-to-peer delivery
of peer goss and ipfs but wait there's
more
the next thing was a social fee so we've
been building up to this one for a while
so this is it's a it's a feed of of
things that have been shared with you by
people that you follow
in pagos and obviously it's end-to-end
encrypted
so it's 100 client-side assembled
this means that there's no ai and no ads
as well as all these applications we've
made some big server-side improvements
as well in 2020 so the first one of
these was
the thing i mentioned earlier the direct
s3 block store
so in normal operation a paragos client
gets all its data from from the pagos
server that it's talking to
but with a with a direct s3 block store
the client still authorizes
reads and writes with the pagos server
but it then talks directly to s3
for both reads and writes now reads you
can see how that might work but right
sounds a bit tricky especially when
there's multiple users around
but the way it works is the block stores
content addressed that's the way ipfs
uses it
and what we do is that when the when the
page server authorizes the url
it includes the hash of the thing the
file that's being
written and s3 verifies that so s3 will
reject an invalid write
where you try to change the data
maliciously and
the the obviously the cool thing about
this is it reduces the bandwidth
requirements of the paragraph server by
about 100x
so a very small server can certainly
host a lot more a lot more users or a
lot more
a lot more data
the next cool thing server side was
fully concurrent garbage collection
so you you reach a point uh especially
with
um with a remote block store like s3
where uh
garbage collections can take up to a day
and during this time other pin
operations can't proceed
so there are a few features of our
design that
allowed us to get around this uh the
first one is a transaction api
uh which helps us prevent the blocks
from being gc
before they've been pinned and actually
we don't actually need we realize we
don't even need to pin them at all
anymore because all our pins are
implicit from the mutual pointers that i
mentioned
and so during during writes
everything's happening client side so
the server doesn't really know
you know it doesn't have any concept of
a file or anything
so you just start a transaction and then
you annotate every block
put with that transaction and that
allows us to not
collect those blocks if there happens to
be a gc before you commit
and this is fully concurrent so there's
there are no no global locks
and yeah rights rights can proceed
concurrently that's not all there was
plenty more in 2020 so we
we managed to increase the the bandwidth
of uploads and downloads by about 4x
mainly by increasing the the maximum
block size
we've sped up navigating around your
file system by about 10x by an
improvement to tree
and we made saving text files seven
times faster
but by far and away the biggest
highlight for us
in in 2020 was uh being awarded a
horizon 2020 next generation internet
architects grant
uh to extend our decentralized social
media capabilities
so this is what we're going to spend
most of the next year working on
so that within those plans we we're
going to extend the social feed to allow
more general posting
and commenting we're going to implement
decentralized group messaging
uh specifically not using the mls
protocol
as well as an email bridge so there's
plenty of fun stuff coming
so thank you very much if you want to
hear more then go check out our website
or
sign up to a beta or you can ask
questions
in the chat thank you very much